# New Blog (Engine)

### Glean

I wrote a new blog engine called `glean` that's 100x better than my previous
attempt with `golb`. This one has two handler functions, one for generating
an index page from the contents of `posts/`, and one for translating and
serving that content live as HTML (from Markdown, of course). This approach
also enabled me to use a dash of CSS to make it look a little nicer outside
of reader mode (though it is still reader-friendly).

### YouTube

With that, I also started a 
[YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCLNIhyppiWZYbtYKfO35jvg) to
push me out of my comfort zone a little bit and start creating more. I really
enjoyed the first video I made, from prep to filming to editing (which was not
expected), so that certainly gives me some hope.

The first video is mostly the writing of the very blog engine that's serving
you content right now, except for some tweaks and improvements that were made
after recording.

### Progress to Date

I set out a handful of lofty goals at the beginning of the year that I've
since faltered on, but not entirely. And on top of that, I've redefined some
of them a bit to be more attainable/measurable. As for victories, I've been
attending small group weekly and that's been very fruitful, I've started a
YouTube channel which I'm calling a win in the creation space, and I tried out
Hello Fresh and hated it so I've been investing in easy home-cooked meals
more (like the chili recipe I've honed recently).

I made it through a decent chunk of the Bible but stopped short and lost a lot
of momentum, so there's a serious amount of catching up to do, and I haven't
been training at all, really. I certainly haven't hit all the targets, and 
probably missed more than that, but there's been progress without a doubt.

### The Fountain Analogy

On the note of personal progress, I wanted to share a thought from our small
group that's shaping some of my goals/targets going forward. We studied and 
discussed James 3:1-12 tonight, and a pertinent theme that emerged was that 
of a fountain representing our spiritual health. James uses the analogy to 
establish the idea that saltwater and freshwater can't flow from the same 
spring, and we developed a mental model based on that to visualize what we 
consume and how that affects us.

If we're naturally a brackish spring, and the Holy Spirit is an outpouring of
fresh water from above, and our goal is to pour out fresh water in the same
way to others, we have some responsibility to keep the balance. It was pointed
out that the best way to remove saltwater from a cup isn't to pick the salt
out, it's to flood it with freshwater so that the saltwater is diluted and
eventually washed away. On the other side of the coin, if you continue pouring 
more saltwater in than freshwater, the outpouring is going to remain brackish, 
and that's of no help to yourself, nor anyone else.

We acknowledge that the salt cannot be fully done away with in this lifetime,
but we also acknowledge that we can, to some extent, adjust how much saltwater
we're letting in, and how much freshwater we're seeking to add (saltwater
being generally worldy, secular content and influence that does not edify us
or bring glory to God, and freshwater being the Word, community, and other
godly influences).

All that being said, and certainly not as thoroughly as it was discussed
tonight, I'm making an effort to limit the saltwater I allow in, and increase
the amount of freshwater I take in. **I want to be as fresh of water to others
as the Lord has been to me.**

### Future Projects

First of all, I will continue to improve on `glean` and that'll bring some
videos with it, mostly for cozy coworking content on the YouTube channel.

Bigger than that, however, is the RSS idea that I'd been mulling over before.
What started as a little build idea for my girlfriend has turned into what
might be one of my most fun projects yet, with more complexity than expected.
A seed was planted in my head about self-hosting and ephemeral presence on a
given site/social network, i.e. your page or content or whatever only shows
up if you're running your node, that way you can pull your content back down
whenever you want, and it's never stored in the cloud. Obviously other users
can pull it, but that's basically true of anything and everything, so the
risks are assumed by the user.

I'd like to make a centralized server that serves as the visual middleware
between nodes that host actual content. The end user would run some sort of
daemon that repeatedly sends available content up to the hub which makes
that data available to everybody else who might be perusing, or know you, or
however that's gonna work. I still want it to be like Pocket but plain and
with your friends, i.e. you can share your feed with others and you can see
all of theirs in one place and everybody can just happily coexist sharing
cool websites and such with no comments or likes or anything like that, as
plain as can be.

It's still in the works, so we'll see how that idea pans out, but I think it
might make for some live streaming content while I work out the details and
implementations, then some polished YouTube content once I know what to build.

---

If you have any questions/comments/concerns, please reach out via email, I
would love to talk, and I don't think I'll ever add commenting to this site.

Grace and peace.